---
layout: post
title: "HTTPS with custom domain on github pages"
date: 2019-01-17 19:21:17 -0800
---

One of the things I attemped in the past but eventually gave up was setting up https
with github pages for my domain. Back then, the only way to do it involves getting
it hooked up with cloudflare. Although it is awesome to have added benefit of DDoS protection on top of TLS, 
I did not find the solution elegant because I did not want any extra features
than I needed. Fast forward today, I finally found out it is possible!
Apparently, I had been living under a rock, github had a blog post about it
back in Apr. 2018.

# At your DNS provider's web page:
#### "A Record" for apex domain (e.g. ffanzhang.com)
I chose to setup an `A`
record ([link](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-an-apex-domain/#configuring-a-records-with-your-dns-provider)).
Alternatively you can setup `ANAME` or `ALIAS` if your DNS provider supports it ([link](https://help.github.com/articles/setting-up-an-apex-domain/#configuring-an-alias-or-aname-record-with-your-dns-provider)).
```
185.199.108.153 
185.199.109.153 
185.199.110.153 
185.199.111.153
```

#### "CAA Record" for apex domain
This allows letsencryt to issue certificates to your domain. Putting it
here also allows the certificate authority to issue certificates to subdomains.
Why apex domain? Because any subdomain inherits apex domain's CAA record.
```
0 issue "letsencrypt.org"
```

#### "CNAME Record" for your subdomain
I pointed this record to my github.io original site.
I think you can also try to point it to your apex domain.
```
YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME.github.io
```

# At github repo's settings page:
Scroll down, and you will see a section called "Custom Domain", where we can
setup subdomain. From what I've read, this setup redirects apex domain to the subdomain. 

You may ask why this complicated setup with two domain names. The issue was I
attemped to setup https with strictly apex domain. However, this attempt failed
because somehow the browser will try to use github's TLS certificate and will
generate a nasty security warning. I also tried configuring with strictly subdomain but also failed. 
Somehow, after some tweaking, the settings presented here is what worked.

If your DNS provider has propagated the changes and everything seems to be
working, there is also a tick mark at the settings page where you can enforce https, so that any http traffic is
redirected to https.

[Here](https://github.blog/2018-05-01-github-pages-custom-domains-https/)
is the blog post if you are still confused about the process.
